Adding external oauth beta docs (#5854)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/manage-access/external-oauth.md

---
title: "Set up external Oauth"
id: external-oauth
description: "Configuration instructions for dbt Cloud and external Oauth connections"
sidebar_label: "Set up external Oauth"
pagination_next: null
pagination_prev: null
---

# Set up external Oauth <Lifecycle status="beta, enteprise" />

:::note Beta feature

External OAuth for authentication is available in a limited beta. If you are interested in joining the beta, please contact your account manager. 

This feature is currently only available for the Okta identity provider and Snowflake connections. Only available to Enterprise accounts.

:::

> dbt Cloud Enterprise supports [OAuth authentication](https://docs.snowflake.net/manuals/user-guide/oauth-intro.html) with external providers. When External OAuth is enabled, users can authorize their Development credentials using single sign-on (SSO) via the identity provider (IdP).  This grants users authorization to access multiple applications, including dbt Cloud, without their credentials being shared with the service. Not only does this make the process of authenticating for development environments easier on the user, it provides an additional layer of security to your dbt Cloud account. 

Author: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud Enterprise supports [OAuth authentication](https://docs.snowflake.net/manuals/user-guide/oauth-intro.html) with external providers. When External OAuth is enabled, users can authorize their Development credentials using single sign-on (SSO) via the identity provider (IdP).  This authorizes users to access multiple applications, including dbt Cloud, without sharing their credentials with the service. This makes the process of authenticating for development environments easier on the user and provides an additional layer of security to your dbt Cloud account. 
```

## Getting started

> The process of setting up external Oauth will require a little bit of back-and-forth between your dbt Cloud, Okta, and Snowflake accounts, and having them open in multiple browser tabs will help speed up the configuration process:

Author: ```suggestion
Setting up external Oauth will require a little bit of back-and-forth between your dbt Cloud, Okta, and Snowflake accounts, and having them open in multiple browser tabs will help speed up the configuration process:
```

- **Okta:** You’ll be working in multiple areas of the Okta account, but you can start in the **Applications** section. You will need permissions to [create an application](https://help.okta.com/en-us/content/topics/security/custom-admin-role/about-role-permissions.htm#Application_permissions) and an [authorization server](https://help.okta.com/en-us/content/topics/security/custom-admin-role/about-role-permissions.htm#Authorization_server_permissions).

If the admins that handle these products are all different people, it’s better to have them coordinating simultaneously to reduce friction.

### Snowflake commands

The following is a template for creating the Oauth configurations in the Snowflake environment:

```sql

create security integration your_integration_name
type = external_oauth
enabled = true
external_oauth_type = okta
external_oauth_issuer = ''
external_oauth_jws_keys_url = ''
external_oauth_audience_list = ('')
external_oauth_token_user_mapping_claim = 'sub'
external_oauth_snowflake_user_mapping_attribute = 'email_address'
external_oauth_any_role_mode = 'ENABLE'

```

> The `external_oauth_token_user_mapping_claim` and `external_oauth_snowflake_user_mapping_attribute` can be modified based on the your organizations needs. These values point to the claim in the users’ token. In the example, Snowflake will look up the Snowflake user whose `email` matches the value in the `sub` claim. 

Author: ```suggestion
The `external_oauth_token_user_mapping_claim` and `external_oauth_snowflake_user_mapping_attribute` can be modified based on your organization's needs. These values point to the claim in the users’ token. In the example, Snowflake will look up the Snowflake user whose `email` matches the value in the `sub` claim. 
```

> **Note:** The Snowflake default roles ACCOUNTADMIN, ORGADMIN, or SECURITYADMIN, are blocked from external Oauth by default and they will likely fail to authenticate. See the [Snowflake documentation](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-security-integration-oauth-external) for more information. 

Author: ```suggestion
**Note:** The Snowflake default roles `ACCOUNTADMIN`, `ORGADMIN`, or `SECURITYADMIN`, are blocked from external Oauth by default, and they will likely fail to authenticate. See the [Snowflake documentation](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-security-integration-oauth-external) for more information. 
```
